okay hello everyone welcome welcome
welcome all it is October the 14th
that's right it's like the ipfs core
implementations weekly sync and I am
Allen I'm gonna run the meeting to some
extent as best I can and yeah so if
you're here please put your name on the
attendees list in the notes document I
am just gonna paste that into their chat
so you can see it and if you haven't
already then please I think most you
already have which is great please add
your weekly update for async review to
the bottom of the document is the last
last heading basically and that's for
people to take a look outside of the
meeting at what you've been up to what
you've done last week what you blocked
on and what your plan is for this week
and we'll do that a synchronously so we
won't go through that in this meeting
but now what we do usually is go through
our initiatives and get an update from
people on what's going on I have I've
been off for about a month so I have
very little to contribute so I'm hoping
you're all gonna step up but yeah
all right cool we've got a note-taker
where we started the recording and yeah
we're good let's go
no so initiatives the upgrading the
release process so Steven is out this
week I believe but Alex as you've been
running the JSI BFS stuff for releasing
and making it better
whilst I've been away would you mind
giving us a short update on Jess what
the status for Jess I benefice release
processes yeah sure so we published our
c0 38 that super good all the stuff that
we wanted to get in is in we also added
automated testing for all of the
examples because testing them manually
is super tedious and and who likes to do
that literally no one so now they'll run
in CI every time you push anything to a
release punch
we can actually make them run on Pio's
as well like there's no reason not to
because the machines do all the hard
work and and they don't complain so you
know maybe we'll do that next there is
in those a little bit of weirdness
around block om which is going to be
fixed off by APR that is costing NCI now
but awaiting a change to pull ND Jason
from David sticker thing and then notes
about that but yeah super good so the
next for that is to add the testing of
the external repo so we've had the code
in as year to do that for a while and
we've been testing our internal external
repos but now we're going to start doing
third-party things as well so running
the test for ipfs log all the DB and
anyone who signs up for the early tester
program which is great so the only the
only requirement that it has is the the
repos that we test have to have a
dependency on either jsrf s or the IPS
HTTP client and the automation will go
through the package Jason for that Revit
to link it to the pre-release
okay so the first existing version if it
fails then it goes cool your tests are
unstable and moves on
if they pass then it actually links it
with the new pre-release of ipfs and
runs the tests again if the second time
around if they fail then it will fail
the build wait anyone got any questions
about
so one of the are the things like if you
if you discover that you've broken
someone's tests and you you write you
know you'll be a good citizen in your
IPR because he's like you've done
something you've reached a breaking
change and they need to do some of your
factoring and you know you decide to be
a good citizen and you write a PR that
change it does the refactor but it
hasn't been merged yet but we can't have
that then hold up our releases so you
know you can then say to as you Haven
run this branch instead of running
master so we can run them against PRS
until they've merged but like with the
proviso they've obviously once those
those pr's and merge those branches
typically get deleted so it's kind of a
time-limited thing but it does unblock
our release process and that's the stuff
that we do
that's cool I was wondering about so
they are only run on a release branch
how does it know that you're on a
release branch it's got the word release
in the branch you have to put release in
the branch name PSS really / and then
the version number
so there are come up new commands I've
been added to here that does this for
you so you just say as you release RC
and it will create the release branch
for you
along with log files and and all that
kind of stuff to make you build repeat
nice can we can we get some links to the
those what the new things are in the
notes
and then I had a second question which
was the projects that are being run the
external projects are they only projects
from the early release the people who
have volunteered to be early release
testers so I I took the list of projects
from the release template which has like
you know pea pod and buy in gamma not
reverse and all that kind of stuff and
then we had and that as well as already
being IPO that's log and then had a bit
of a call for contributors and
contributors are called for early access
testers and we've got one other one
other group who've who've joined in
which is cool that's much on in terms of
the commands that you run I actually
changed the release template so just
basically have like notes in it like
crib notes of what commands he would run
to to certain things and so there that's
nice and yeah I thought I guess the
point that was kind of alluding to that
so when we release now we are dependent
on like if we make a breaking change and
it breaks someone's build then like the
external project has to catch up with us
at some point right well we can get an
update if we break like if we if we
break these people's builds than you
know we're kind of saying we're not
going to do that in future which is why
it goes into CI but then if we if we
resubmit a fix and they haven't merged
here then we can run our CI against the
branch with a fix rather than running
against the broken stop so there were no
longer block so the onus is on us to
make the fix if they don't do it again
yeah I mean we can play it by ear we can
always back the stop out if it turns out
to be yeah I guess so I'm just more like
voicing that this is the state of play
and this is how things are now and I
just wanted everyone to be aware that
that this is happening now
one thing in particular like pier pad is
in pretty bad shape at the moment like
the test own run at all really so the
test run and then the test runner fails
offer all the tests of pass which is
really tedious and I spent like a day
trying to put her back into shape but
yeah all the no tests pass but then the
browser tests don't run very well and
Connor is doing it's lovely job of
obscuring all useful messages so yeah
I'm not convinced under spend a lot more
time trying to fix that
the test pass
okay and then young ever thing I wanted
to raise was there was an issue I think
David opened for saying that he might
think the release process is too long
perhaps we should take that conversation
to a parking lot if we if we have time
at the end that yeah if you're
interested in that then and you have
feels then go and comment on that issue
maybe I'll add it to the notes at some
point anyway sorry does anyone know
anything so moving on has anyone know
about the Go ipfs release last week we
had a note to say that the new release
had not made it out the door and it was
scheduled
can anyone speak to that no it was just
it's not it's just the ongoing same news
that guy PFS releases are blocked
pending tests such a ground gotcha okay
all right all right in which case let's
move on upgrade testing infra and or
process is assistants not here Jim's not
here I am here but not a no stay up the
beat so let's skip over that one for
today because I can't speak to it a
litel subdomain gateway stuff IPS in
base 32 I saw last week that the spec
got merged and there is an issue
tracking its implementation and I was
just wondering if they're like if you
had any updates on that and like is
anyone assigned to it
I'm afraid no update this week and
basically if I clear my plate I'll be
picking this stuff up but if someone
feels like they need a distraction
that's fairly small thing to pick up how
much food do you have on your plate
fixed but it's like basically we've we
need to switch the p2p from when they
parse multi others the PID switch it
from being just a CID v-0 multi harsh
right now we use multi harsh library
directly so the change is to switch
multi harsh to see I it to see IDs
library in a backward it should be
mostly backward compatible cuz like CID
v-0 is effectively multi harsh that's
that's about it
questions or thoughts on that
it would be really useful for browsers
coke just read signaling then Jacob last
week that was on hold pending
async/await I'm assuming still on hold
yes right okay then IP and Ness is Aidan
or Hugo is here so the what is it the
last week we had a some information
about a pub sub pubs of discovery being
improved does anyone know about that
we'll have a link to APR that they can
put on there cuz I'd like to see it and
then the other thing was Hugo I guess
you might know I cleaner so a DNS spec
is there a update on that no not the
street nothing new on there just ipfs
tests now
does anyone know about the pub/sub
discovery improvements
you guys alright I will attempt to fish
them out or ask I didn't for them for a
PR to look at so then upgrade what this
next one so migration tube multi hash
keys in the block store that is I don't
know that there's a big up there I think
the actual migration tool that could do
a repo migration is almost merged I
think Alex told me today I guess the the
discussion point on that is if we were
to change the block store to using multi
hash for keys we lose the IP OD codec so
when we use commands like refs we end up
printing out just multi hashes not not
see IDs with peyote codecs in them and
we kind of need a solution to that
before we can move forwards because I
don't I'm not sure I have I'm not sure I
have one off the top of my head but if
anyone has any thoughts on that then we
you should check out I think that's a
pull request or a issue I'll try and
fish that out as well and put it in the
notes for you to comment on cool okay
anyone else anyone have any questions or
comments or things to say about that
okay
EFS mount does you know about that
what is it it's mounting that ipfs is
this fuse thing right okay
I think the update on the last document
was things are getting progress so I was
I just I need need a bit more
information on that
okay good bit swap bits one sec hey and
so by the way it's a holiday today in
America so I think that's why there's no
updates on some of this stuff um with
respective bit swap I've been working on
so I have a concept that I've been
working on for a while and I've got a
running fast now meaning it doesn't take
very long to transfer stuff and it's
consistent across you know depending on
how many leeches and seeds you have it
remains consistent across that's varying
amounts and so who the problem is that
it's sending a lot of duplicate data so
I've been working on that for the last
last week or so I mean I've no knock it
out to in tomorrow probably nice can you
link to your pull requests in the notes
please let's go alright back to the
notes any anyone got any questions for
Dirk on bits well
how close do you feel you are with the
bits well things being being done your
you've got that you say you got work in
progress proof of concept yeah there's
still quite a ways to go because we we
need to get the testing infrastructure
set up so right now you know I've been
mostly testing on an ec2 network that
has very low latency so we need to set
up something to simulate the broader
Internet so I expect there'll be a
couple of rounds of iteration after we
do that right and so because they are
such big changes you want to make
absolutely sure that they're going to
have a positive effect on the network
and you can only do so by having a good
testing environment for it nice that
makes absolute sense ok cool can we move
on then we've got the async/await and
three fact lib p2p jakecooper fresco
would you like to update your phone on
what you've been type in there yes so we
don't have any new releases from last
week but we have a slew of things in
progress
bushka is working on refactoring all of
the pub/sub stuff the dialer upgrade or
refactor for Allah p2p internals is
almost done so should be should be
hopefully done this week just going to
sort out a few more tests and then we're
working on some issues with WebSockets
tar and then we'd ran into some issues
with the p2p UDP dependencies that's
going to require a bit of work to make
that work properly with the new async
iterators for streams so we're gonna
punt on that as UTP transport isn't
currently used very much so everything
else is kind of a higher priority so
we'll punt on that one for now that is
basically it is it a
option to not do the websocket star so
because relays yeah we could potentially
do that but a lot of people are still
using WebSockets all right so if we
release the refactor then it just won't
work with it ideally we want a sunset
WebSockets are but I think if it gets to
a point where it's too much work to redo
that then maybe we'll find another path
one of the things that we talked about
was or I thought about doing was just
changing the WebSocket star server to
actually just be a circuit relay node
that does like a pub/sub pure discovery
and then make like the WebSocket star
transport just automatically bind to
that that pub/sub protocol as like a
potential option to just get around
using all of the socket IO stuff
okay interesting we'll see how long it
takes me to sort out the issues with the
current state things
yeah so I noticed that there's now like
a Trello for the async/await stuff for
Libby to be all of that stuff getting
done and that's I think that's a really
good idea um do you mind linking it here
so other people can follow gee is it
this public isn't it yeah yeah that's
cool and so then for unless there's some
questions on on that alright so for Jas
ipfs who would like to speak to this I
can do it so please - thanks the
interface core set up basically the
hopes before and after tests the way we
we had it before we had some boilerplate
code to set up stuff and then stop the
notes that we previously started these
this boilerplate boilerplate was
refactored it was moved into IP FST CTL
is always sync awake now and you can see
there the requests with all those
changes and also pedro is working on
moving the interrupt repo to a sync
weights right now we are basically
focusing on the first fully quest which
is moving to the new version of a brief
sec TL which is already async await we
had some troubles even today we were
here we had a debugging session and we
found some bugs and hopefully everything
is figured out now the tests are running
and yeah we are moving on so the new
stuff I don't know who's writing but
feel free to speak about it
okay so I've had the GSI PFS HTTP
response that he is refactoring right
now and it is already merged and also
let me just check here I've also opened
a PR for the interface JSI PFS core I
will add this on the on the list also
and that's it for me so I've called PR
apron that converts the remaining files
API to ASIC into writers following a
pattern we establish with with files dot
had which is gonna be super good when it
goes in and that's just kind of like
waiting for like fixes to the block RM I
wanted to put enter master and then and
then put the new stuff in after that
good to simplify cherry-picking stuff to
pull over to the release branch for
three
nice thank you everyone also hi bedroo I
didn't know you started working whilst I
was away so it's nice to nice to see
your face can for the I feel that's HTTP
response can I get a link for the pull
request please method to the notes Brad
thank you and keep up the good work we
should chat sometime but not now
all right so this week design review
proposals Vidal has a a review proposal
to it's tiny tiny thing on top of last
week's that's why I believe like we we
also have last week's so there's this
experimental spec for an offense based
co-hosts think of websites and the new
thing since I mentioned it last week is
we started exploring the capability of
MFS to basically store lazy pointers to
some datasets without fetching entire
thing to your local node so that
basically unlocks use case when you are
able to co-host a subset of Wikipedia
which is like 650 gigs you could be like
having hit you in your NFS sit in your
web UI but just effectively store only
those pages you act actively visited
previously so that's just a quick update
on top of that spec if anyone is
interested it's a very early draft and
links are in the notes
nice do you want you just want people to
comment on the PR you don't want to have
a set up a meeting or anything no no
it's mostly like an awesome discussion
it's very like relaxed it's just does
not require changes to core API so it's
like side project around between ipfs
companion and I give us desktop mostly
got it
nice I like the idea from what I've read
just then and what you just said
cool okay any questions for Al Idol
before we move on
all right we're getting from it we're
almost done people and he won't go any
blockers or asks there's nothing there
another moment
alright get anyone got any questions
all right anyone got anything that you
wanna would like to discuss that doesn't
fit into our categories
all right very talkative
um this does anyone want to talk about
the release Paris that's being too long
I think Pete was saying it's too short
okay well yeah should we talk about that
then
so yeah Davis point was that you know it
takes a whole person basically like the
whole time does it well I don't think so
like I really think well it depends how
bad we break things like we just make a
rod for our own backs if we keep
releasing breaking changes and we agree
that we're not going to break the
parapet anymore but I just reading that
we can definitely automate as much as
possible
time consuming thing was like checking
out the repos running the examples and
all that kind of stuff and now the
machine does that because a lot of it I
think is going to be I mean from the
from the rescheduled docks
most of the time is spent like gathering
feedback from early testers and we don't
really have any at the moment like we've
got yes I'd try and and orbit which is
obviously not the same position that go
investors in because I have a lot of
production deployments to manage so
tonight I mean we can make hay while the
Sun shines Basin
okay I'd like I am yeah I would at least
like to go through this myself one
iteration before we decide on it I guess
I can't really speak to it but if you
think it's just right Goldilocks then
we're good we can continue on the
assumption I guess all right and then
let's finish I guess are we all done
one thing before we go I did some
leisure coding and I wanted to share
with you a thing that I made and it's
like to celebrate the fact that gossips
have got released in in the new JSI PFS
38 39 38 yeah
in and it was just a chat application
and it uses pub/sub and there it is
install it on your web browser and you
can talk to people using jfif s and
pub/sub so check it out I'll put it in
the notes as well if you're interested
but other than that I'll see you on the
chat thing
because it could be fun and I'll see you
next week thank you very much for
updates and it was really nice seeing
your faces and hopefully we'll have more
more go IVFs team information next week
do we know when you're from the fire the
gonna Peter P universe that's the
infrastructure that's up there a good
metaphor yeah that is literally your
your avatar
if you've showed it to us in real life I
love it
um to answer your question about the
goalie p2p no we don't usually get
people from goalie Pete and become I
don't believe unless I'm forgetting I'm
pretty sleep-deprived I see Jacob to
turn up Jake investigator here yes all
the way baby
all right let's not hang around any
longer thank you for sharing your fire
with us Michael and thanks everyone for
sharing down dates and talking today
it's been really fun and I'll see you
all next week for another exciting round
bye
I